---
sidebar_position: 2
---

# Pytest

[PyTest](https://docs.pytest.org/en/7.1.x/contents.html) is a more advanced (than doctest) testing framework. It is not a part of the standard library. However, it allows developers to write tests using Python programming language. Unlike, for example, some of the popuplar JavaScript testing frameworks, Pytest "looks" just like normal Python code. 

With [PyTest](https://docs.pytest.org/en/7.1.x/contents.html), one can write scalable test cases for databases, APIs, or UI. It is a very versatile framework. Dropbox and some other big apps that use Python on the backend recently switched to Pytest.

PyTest is very common for writing APIs and web app integration tests. However, it can also be used to write basic unit tests, our starting point.

Some of the advantages of [PyTest](https://docs.pytest.org/en/7.1.x/contents.html) are:

- Simple syntax, "just like normal Python"
- Can run tests in parallel
- Can run only a specific test or a subset of tests
- Automatically detects tests
- Can skip tests
- Open source

## Staring a Python project with PyTest

Usually, devs install PyTest in a virtual environment using [pip](https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/).

To explain it a bit more we will discuss steps you need to take to make a Python project and sync it with a remote repo. There are two options.

### `mkdir` and `add origin`

In your terminal create a new folder.

```bash
mkdir my-python-project
```

Navigate into that new folder:

```bash
cd my-python-project
```

Create a Python virtual environment

```bash
python -m venv venv
```

Activate a Python virtual environment

```bash
.\venv\Scripts\activate
```

Install PyTest

```bash
pip3 install pytest
```

If you want you can open your project in VSCode as soon as you have created te folder or later.

```bash
code .
```

Now you are ready to write and run your first test.

## PyTest assertions

[PyTest](https://docs.pytest.org/en/7.1.x/contents.html) runs files without you mentioning a filename when  file names are in the format:

- `test_*.py`
or 
- `*_test.py`

PyTests shouold be in the current directory/subdirectories. Pytest automatically identifies test files.

Try creating your first test file and write those tests:

```python
def test_always_passes():
    assert True

def test_always_fails():
    assert False
```

