---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# SDLC

## Intro to SDLC

[System Development Life Cycle (SDLC)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Fi3_BjVzpqk) is a
conceptual model. It describes the stages organisations typically follow to:

- plan
- design
- build
- test
- deliver
- and maintain

software applications or entire information systems.

SDLC provides a set of steps to create an end-product. The end-product of SDLC can be:

- Only hardware
- Only software
- Both hardware and software

## Types of System Lifecycles

System lifecycles can be:

- [Linear](#linear-system-lifecycles)
- Iterative

### Linear System Lifecycles

Linear lifecycles are considered traditional and somewhat old-fashioned.

They are based on a step-by-step approach.

Each step needs to be completed, agreed and signed-off before the next step can be started.

The final step of a linear cycle is often the implementation of the system into the live environment, the deployment. Sometimes the deployment is succeeded by the maintenance of the system. Maintenance continues until the product is replaced with a newer version or deprecated. Conversely, in iterative cycles the deployment happens from the start of the project and is done continuously.

The ‘Waterfall’ lifecycle is a classic example of the linear lifecycle.

A linear approach is suitable when:

- the requirements are well understood
- the requirements are agreed in detail in advance
- the requirements are very unlikely to change
- the agreement with the client requires formal reviews by the system producers and users at every stage
- the development process must be guided by detailed formal documentation (e.g., military contracts)
- the development costs have to be split
- the project is very smalls

Lifecycles that follow the linear approach are:

- Waterfall
- V-model
- Incremental

### Advantages of the linear approach

- The problem is broken down into distinct steps with clear goals
- Everything is agreed in advance with the client
- Outsourced or distributed development is easier
- Easier to conduct when the design specification is fixed, rigid
- Easier to budget
- Simpler for very small problems

### Disadvantages of the linear approach

- Challenging to go back one step
- Time-consuming
- Does not accommodate changing requirements
- No value is created until the project is fully finished

### Waterfall SDLC