---
sidebar_position: 2
---

# Software Architecture

Broadly speaking, architecture is the art, study, and practice of designing large physical objects such as buildings and monuments. At its core is understanding the context and environment and how things work together.

In the world of technology, application architecture is constrained by the application boundary, whereas enterprise architecture is broader and looks beyond technology. Software architectureLinks to an external site. describes a system's components and the relationships between them. Its primary purpose is to represent and justify the design decisions of the software system.

Some of the most critical functions of software architecture are:

- to help stakeholders to visualize, understand, and assess the proposed system
- to propose the structure rather than the implementation
- to predict the expenses of a project
- to help make core decisions before development

Some of the most important characteristics of software architecture are:

- The architecture defines a structure
- The architecture captures early design decisions
- The architecture manages stakeholder requirements
- The architecture influences the organisational structure
- The architecture is influenced by its environments and architecture.
- The architecture often conforms to a pattern

An architectural pattern is a reusable solution to a common problem. Many architectural patterns exist in Software Architecture. Some of them include the following:

- Layered pattern
- Client-server architecture
- Peer-to-peer pattern
- Model-view-controller(MVC)
- Presentation-abstraction-control(PAC)
- Model-view-presenter(MVP)
- Microservices
- Serverless