---
sidebar_position: 2
---

# OOP Design Patterns - intro

Design patterns became a popular topic in late 90s after the so-called [Gang of Four](https://medium.com/codechai/what-is-gang-of-four-gof-5f55a6942913) (GoF: Gamma, Helm, Johson, and Vlissides) published a book called "Design Patterns: Elements of Reusable Object-Oriented Software."

## A pattern

A pattern is when a group of shapes is repeated. More generally, it refers to anything repeating over and over again.

There are many types of patterns used in tech.

## Architectural patterns

An architectural pattern is a reusable solution to a common problem. Many architectural patterns exist in Software Architecture. Some of them are:

- Layered pattern
- Client-server architecture
- Peer-to-peer pattern
- Model-view-controller(MVC)
- Presentation-abstraction-control(PAC)
- Model-view-presenter(MVP)
- Microservices
- Serverless

## Design Patterns

Design Patterns are ready-made solutions to common problems. In software design, they are the well-proved solutions that have been used before and worked well.

OOP design patterns fall into three main categories.

- Creational Patterns
- Structural Patterns
- Behavioral Patterns

### Factory Pattern

A **Factory Pattern** as a creational design pattern. It is often used to create concrete implementations of a common interface.

> **Factory Pattern** separates the process of creating an object from the code that actually uses the object.

**Factory Pattern** adds an extra level of abstraction between the creation of the object and where it is used.

[This video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cfN1_e_Fyjw&list=PLKWUX7aMnlEJzRvCXnwFEdk_WJDNjMDOo) explains it in more detail.

```python
class CarFactory(object):
    def make(type):
        if type == "racecar":
            return RaceCar()
        elif type == "van":
            return Van()
        elif type == "bus":
            return Bus()

    make = staticmethod(make)
    

class Van:
    wheels = 4
    top_speed = 100

class Bus:
    wheels = 4
    top_speed = 80

class RaceCar:
    wheels = 4
    top_speed = 300

obj1 = CarFactory.make("bus")
obj2 = CarFactory.make("racecar")
obj3 = CarFactory.make("van")

print(obj1.top_speed)
print(obj2.top_speed)
```

## The group task (in groups of 2 or 3)

Create a team GitHub repo and make a factory of something. Try testing your code. Give each other code reviews.